1-1 What is the difference between the following?
    1 process and processor
    2 user, job, process

A1:
    process: "A process (or task) is a computation that may be done concurrently with other computations." (pg 5)
    processor: "A processor is a hardware device capable of inerpreting instructions and performing the indicated operation (e.g. addition)." (pg 4)
    difference: A process is a verb and a processor is a noun. The processor is a physical piece of hardware, while the process is an action that is made. These two are related by the fact that a processor is the object that executes a process.

A2:
    user: The thing creating the task at hand. It decides what needs to be done and how they want it done. "A user submits his job to the operating system. A user is anybody that desires work to be done by a computer system." (pg 5)
    job: The overarching thing that the user wants to create. "A job is the collection of activities needed to do the work required. A job may be divided into several steps (job steps)." (pg 5)
    process: An individual step towards performing the job. "A process (or task) is a computation that may be done concurrently with other computations." (pg 5)
    difference: The difference between these three things is how they are related. A user is the creator, the job is their creation, and a process is how they create it by way of individual computations.

-------------------------------------------------------------

1-2 List two advantages of multiprogramming.

A: 
    "Multiprogramming is a term given to a system that may have several processes in "states of execution" at the same time" (pg 7)

    This is an advantage because 1) multiprogramming allows for a system to execute many process in parallel and 2) potentially save time by not waiting for each previous task to finish. (I know that is really just one advantage, but I'm having trouble thinking of anything where the end effect is time saved).

-------------------------------------------------------------

1-3 One may make the following analogy:
    Boss is comparable to CPU
    Secretary is comparable to I/O channel
    Typewriter is comparable to I/O device

    1 State how a boss, secretary, and typwriter communicate with each other
      (e.g., boss with his secretary).
    2 How is each scheduled? Consider priorities, preemption, and interruption and which can be interupted by whom (e.g., who can interrupt the boss?).
    3 Repeat 1 and 2 for the group: CPU, I/O channel, I/O device

A1:
    boss + secretary: boss verbally speaks with his secretary, where the boss is dictating directions or the secretary is sharing information on the day that she has managed for him
    secretary + typewriter: the secretary uses her fingers to press on the typewriter and the typewriter responds by producing a page with the information she set out to make
    boss + typewriter: boss never interacts with the typewriter directly, but recieves its output.

A2:
    (forgive my misogyny in the following)
    A boss will dictate his priorities to the secretary who will then create her own priorities that enable her to efficiently use the typewriter to finish her tasks. The typewriter will never dictate a priority other than in a malfunction, and then is dictating a priority in a way because it is not responding as expected. Sometimes, if a secretary has information that the boss does not, she will provide input.

    A secretary can preempt the boss's tasks by completing things she know he likes finished often before he asks. A typwriter preemts the secretary's needs when is automatically dings at the end of a page to notify finishing (I think?).

    A typewriter will never interrupt a secretary except in cases of malfunction. A boss may interrupt the secretary if there is something he needs before she is finished typing. A secretary may interrupt the boss if there is an issue with the task he has asked for.

A3:
    CPU + I/O channel: "the CPU may execute a START I/O (SIO) instruction to initiate an I/O processor." (pg 4) The CPU communicates with the I/O channel through start up tasks or end tasks.
    I/O channel + I/O device: "the I/O (Input and Output) processors are designed to control I/O devices and handle the movement of data between the memory and the I/O devices." (pg 4). The I/O channel is the one that dictates to the I/O device what to do.
    CPU + I/O device: These do not communicate directly except in the case where an I/O channel would be lacking or an I/O device has sent a response through the I/O channel back to the CPU.

    A CPU dictates priorities to the I/O channel which then dictates to the I/O device its priorities to finish the task. Both the I/O channel and the I/O device may preempt tasks that the one above it may ask for. Again moving up the chain is how error interruptions would be communicated, and down the chain would be how stop commands are communicated.

-------------------------------------------------------------

1-4 Divide all the following instructions into privileged and nonprivileged. For each instruction state your reasons.
    1 Set tape drive on fire.
    2 Raise pi to the 'x' power.
    3 Stop CPU.
    4 Read the clock.
    5 Clear memory.
    6 Disable all interrupts (masking).
    7 Change value of instruction address register.

A:
    "Another feature found in most contemporary computer systems is special hardware and instructions used by the operating system. These instructions, which are usually not available to the ordinary user, are commonly called priveleged instructions." (pg 7)

    privileged:
        1 Set tape drive on fire.
            I had to look this up and it does seem like this is a real computing term, not just the action of angrily setting fire to a tape drive because you're annoyed (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Halt_and_Catch_Fire_(computing)). It sounds like this would be a function where the CPU can decide to quit and burn everything. It is possible though that this is a joke.
        6 Disable all interrupts (masking).
            If an interrupt may not be relevant for a task, or could be ignored without serious issue, there can be hardware to override this.
        7 Change value of instruction address register.
            I'm not 100% sure what this means in 80s terms either, but I'm assuming it is the process of moving over where one piece of code sits in memory to another? Which sounds like something that would happen in a higher state, rather than just by any user.
    nonprivileged:
        2 Raise pi to the 'x' power.
            This is a normal task that anyone could do on any computer.
        4 Stop CPU.
            It is normal to need to interrupt a program. Any user can see that a process is going awry and stop it from running.
        4 Read the clock.
            This is also a normal task that does not require special permission.
        5 Clear memory
            This is also normal, but I am assuming that it doesn't include any memory that may be set aside by the system for special purposes. In that case, it would be a privileged instruction to clear out the set aside memory.

-------------------------------------------------------------

1-5 Assume that you are head of the check-sorting division of a bank, which processes 50,000 checks a day for its 99,999 customers. That is, 50,000 checks are distributed among 99,999 bins.

Two sorting methods are proposed.
    1 Linear -- the bins are lined up in a row. A person takes about 99,999/10 seconds (about 1000 seconds) to find the right bin and deposit the check in it.
    2 Bucket sort -- 11,110 intermediary bins are used. Based on first digit of check, he places it in one of the ten bins. After all the checks have been so processed, he goes to one of these bins and processes each check into other bins based upon the second digit, etc. Processing such check action takes about 10/10 = 1 second.

    a How long would it take to process all the checks using methods 1 and 2?
    b Using method 2, which steps could be done in parallel (as separate processes)? That is, how many people could be used?
    c If parallel processing were used in method 2, how long would it take to sort all the checks?

Aa:
    Linear sort: 50,000 checks * 1000s/check = 50,000,000 seconds to process all the checks, or ~580 days
    Bucket sort: 50,000 checks * 1s/check = 50,000 seconds to process all the checks, or ~0.6 days

Ab:
    A person can stand at each group of sub-bins so that a person only needs to check one digit and place it in the correct bin.

    In this case, there are 11,110 bins. 10 bins for the first set of digits, 10 bins for each digit of the previous set, so 100 bins, 1000 bins in the next level (10 bins for each of the 100 bins) and 10000 bins at the final, adding up to 11,110 bins.

    If there is a person at each set of bins, the first level would have 1 person for the set of 10 bins, the next level would have 10 people for each sub bin, the third would have 100, and the fourth would have 1000.

    This comes out to mean there are 1111 people who can be working in parallel to sort the checks.

Ac:
    If sorting one check through all 4 layers of sub bins takes 1 second, then it can be assumed that each layer of sorting takes 0.25 seconds. Sorting in parallel means that the limits on time are only how long it takes the first person to process all the check, and then how long it takes that final check to be fully processed to the end.

    It would take the first person 50,000 checks * 0.25 s/check = 12,500 seconds
    The final check takes one second to fully process, so we add the final 0.75s to send it through the 3 remaining bins the total.
    That makes 12,500.75 seconds to process all the checks, or ~3.5 hours.

    This does assume that every check can be fully parallelized, which may not be 100% accurate if two checks need to go to the same sub-bin in less than the amount of time that it takes to process the previous check. I think that the difference would be negligible, though.
-------------------------------------------------------------
The following four questions deal with analogies for the different frameworks for viewing an operating system (memory manager, process manager, device manager, information manager). This took me a little while to wrap my head around, so I would suggest reading all four questions and putting together the answers as one set rather than trying to tackle one at a time.
-------------------------------------------------------------

    1-6 We make an analogy between a warehouse with many shelves and a memory with many locations. Assume a large number of items have arrived and will continue to arrive. The task of the warehouse manager (memory manager) is to store these items on the shelves.
        Give an example of how the four memory manager functions of Section 1-3 are performed; for example,
        1 How does the manager keep track of space?
        2 If the loading dock has many items on it, how does the manager decide which item to store first?
        3 How are shelves allocated?
        4 What does the manager do when one item is removed from the shelves?

    A:
        Function 1, keep track of resource: keep an inventory count of what is open and used. You can also visually see which shelves are open, which in a computer could look like tags at the start and end of each memory address.

        Function 2, decide which process gets memory: store inventory that will go out again soon at the front and inventory that will be there for a while in the back.

        Function 3, allocate the resource: place the inventory on the shelves. Make a note in the inventory tracker that this is where an item has gone.

        Function 4, reclaim the resource: send out the inventory, cross out the note in the inventory tracker.

-------------------------------------------------------------

    1-7 We can make an analogy between managing a restaurant and managing processors when the following are analogous.
        Cook--processor
        Maitre d' (cook's boss)--processor manager
        Customers' orders--processes--they are all demanding processing, e.g. they want their meal.
        Customers--users
        Give an example of how the four processor manager functions of Section 1-4 are performed, e.g., how does the boss keep track of resources--the processors and processes, etc.?

    A:
        I'm having trouble finding four specific processor management functions in Section 1-4, so I'm going to use the functions in section 1-3.2.

        Function 1, keep track of the resource: The boss should know who is on shift that day and what their skills are.

        Function 2, who will use the processor: take in tickets as the customers make requests. If a customer is angry, maybe speed up the job.

        Function 3, allocate the resource: send the cooks to their station and get the started.

        Function 4, deallocate the resource: send out the meal when it is finished.

-------------------------------------------------------------

    1-8 We can make an analogy between managing a post office and managing devices where the mail trucks are devices and the letters are the I/O request. (Note: the post office does not decide where your letters go or just how they get there.)
    
    Give an example of how the four device management functions of Section 1-3.3 are performed for the post office. Be sure to consider the following in function 2. If one letter arrives, do you assign it a truck and send the truck away (fast deliver for that letter, but you could run out of trucks) or do you wait until the truck is full (efficient use of device but slow delivery, e.g., a truck to Lynn, Mass may take a year to fill)? Thus, discuss the tradeoff between fast response (sending the letter on the first truck) and good utilization (wait until the truck is full).

    A:
        Function 1, keep track of resource: A post office accepts letters of all shapes and sizes, but is ultimately always able to find the label on the resource

        Function 2, decide most efficient way to allocate resource: This would be the truck question. Ultimately, everything needs to go where it wants to go, so waiting for a truck to fill up indefinitely could risk leaving the letters at the post office forever. It would be better to have a time limit on each truck, so for a day the slow shipping option is used, but at night all remaining trucks should go out in the fast way. Programs could specific expidited or slow depending on the importance of the letter.

        Function 3, allocate the resource: Once the post office knows which truck to put it in, it should send it that way and prepare the truck for either its max letter limit or max time, or both.

        Fuction 4, reclaim the resource: Automatically once a truck leaves, the letter is no longer a concern.

-------------------------------------------------------------

    1-9 We make an analogy between a librarian and an information manager. Given an example of how the four information management functions of Section 1-3 are performed for a library.

    A:
        Function 1, keep track of resource: libraries have call cards that list all the books. You can quickly search through cards to find a call number, or wander through shelves and hope you land on something interesting.

        Function 2, decide who gets use: A library may restrict access to certain sections based on age or membership level. Only after credentials are checked may a person enter this restricted area and view the collection. Sometimes the call cards are available outside the section, but other times you may need to enter the section to get an idea of the archive.

        Function 3, allocate the resource: check out a book, or at least remove a book to read at the desk.

        Function 4, deallocate the resource: return a book and place back on the shelf.

-------------------------------------------------------------

    1-10 We can make a process state model of you.
        (see book for diagram)
    Where you have two states, asleep or working, wo make the transition from the working state to the asleep state when you are tired.
    1 Add three more states, e.g., eating.
    2 Indicate all possible transitions between the five states.

    A:
        Three new states: cuddling asha, eating, biking

        Full transistion cycle:
        sleeping ----alarm clock----> cuddling asha ----stomach growl----> eating ----time to leave (clock?)----> biking ----end of path---> working -----tired----> biking (home) ----end of path----> eating ----tired----> sleeping